In this lab we're going to create a DynamoDB accelerator cache in front of a DynamoDB table.
And what we're gonna do is we're going to also create an EC2 instance.
So we create our table we create our cache and we have an EC2 instance.
And on that EC2 instance we're going to install nodeJS.
And we're actually going to run some nodeJS applications to query data in DynamoDB through the cache.
So there's a couple of things we need to get this working.
Firstly we need a security group and that security group needs the following rules TCP 8000 for Dynamo
DB and TCP 8111 for DynamoDB accelerator.
Now I'm just creating one security group and applying it to my EC2 instance and my accelerator and
that means might to instance can connect both the DynamoDB and Dax. And Dax can also connect to dynamodb
you might want to split these into two in a production scenario you would.
And in that case you would have a separate security group for the EC2 instance and the source address
would then be the security group that the EC2 instance is assigned to and that would be an extra
level of security.
Then in terms of roles we're going to apply a role to each of these so there's gonna be a role for the
EC2 instance and the permissions that it will have are both to access DynamoDB because we're going
to create the initial table from the EC2 instance using a script and we're then going to also need
access to DynamoDB accelerator so those permissions for that as well the IAM role that's attached
to the dynamoDB accelerator needs access to dynamodb.
And that's because it's going to read items from the database and then store them in the in-memory
cache.
So let's head over to the console and start building this out.
The first thing I want to draw your attention to is this AWS article and we're going to use this so
that we can create an application that we can then use to test our dynamoDB accelerator cluster.
And I'm gonna go through and use the nodejs version.
You can feel free to change if you like and we're just going to run these commands.
Now before we do that let's create an IAM role. So I'm gonna head over to identity and access management.
I'm gonna head to roles and choose create role and the first one is going to be from my to instance
so I'm going to choose the service that we use this role as EC2
and I'm gonna search for DynamoDB and I'm just gonna give it the full access
and this one I'm going to call
dynamo DB Dax.
And let's create that role.
Now you might be wondering about the permissions for DynamoDB accelerator but let's go in and have
a look at this policy so we can see here we have an action and the actions are in dynamoDB star and
Dax star.
So we actually get a whole load of permissions and they apply both to dynamoDB and DAX.
So that's all we need for that policy.
We can then grow it go and create a role for for DAX itself.
And in this case we're going to choose DynamoDB and then we can choose Amazon dynamoDB accelerator
and it says it allows Dax to call DynamoDB on your behalf.
So that's exactly what we want.
And if we go through to permissions again we've got the DynamoDB full access here so we can click next
click review and we'll call this Dax dynamoDB
and click write role
so we have our two roles now.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm going to spin up an EC2 instance and this instance is going to be in
my custom VPC to choose the Amazon T2 micro and put it in my custom VPC it's gonna go in
a public subnet and I'm going to choose my dynamoDB Dax role
and then I'm going to go and choose my web access security group and you'll notice I've already added
the ports in here so you'll need to add these to your security group so that's the port eight thousand
for dynamoDB and port 8111 for DynamoDB accelerator so go for it and click launch while
that's happening what we're gonna do is head over to DynamoDB and we're going to create our dynamo
DB Dax cluster.
So we just go to Dax clusters choose create cluster and I'm just gonna call this Dax one I'm gonna choose
the smallest instance available and I'm gonna pop this down to cluster size 1.
This probably isn't on through to I'm pretty sure this is not through to so by the way guys there could be
a cost associated with doing this I'm then gonna go in and choose my Dax the DynamoDB service role
and if you're doing this for the first time you can go in and create a subnet group and you'll just
specify the subnets that you want your dynamo DV accelerator instance to actually run in because remember
even if DynamoDB be doesn't run on instances where you don't see them any way with dynamiteDB Dax
they do so you do choose an instance size for your cluster in this case I'm just gonna choose the subnets
group that I created earlier and I'm going to choose my web access security group which has all the
firewall rules in ensuring that I have a triple one so that might dynamoDB accelerated cache can
actually access my DynamoDB instance I'm going to leave the default here but what you could do is then
go in you can provide a description you can choose the EC2 you want the cluster to go into so
I could choose ap-southeast-2a and then you can go in and change parameter groups maintenance windows and
so on.
So I'm just going to leave the default settings there and choose a launch cluster and while that's all
happening I've copied my IP address and locked into my EC2 instance and what we're gonna do now
is run through these commands to install node version manager to download some sample program source code
for my W S and then we're gonna use that to create and write tables, create a table, and write some data
to it and query that data both straight from DynamoDB and then using a dynamoDB Dax endpoint so that
we're querying through the cache and we'll see the difference in the results. So I'm logged into my EC2
instance and the first command I'm gonna run is going to download the node version manager then going
to activate it and then going to install nodeJS and then I'm going to run a command just to check that
that's all working and it tells me that we're running Digest version six point 4.0.
So that's all good.
We now need to install the nodeJS client for backs and we're now going to actually go and download
the source code for our sample application for nodejs.
Then we're going to unzip that and let's have a look at what we got here.
Let's change directory to try.
Thanks.
Have a look inside and we've actually got our nodeJS out here so let's go into unknown js folder and
see what we have.
And here we have these files which we can use to run our sample application so the first one I want
to run is going to do node 01 dash create table.
Now before I do that what I've got to do because I've actually created all this in the Sydney region
is I just need to go into each of these tables and edit the region so I can come in and you can do this
and just change to whatever region you want to create your dax table in so I'm going to change this
to ap-southeast-2 and then gonna save.
Now I need to do that for all six tables.
So I'm going to post a recording while I do that because basically it's just one item the region that
needs to be changed in each of these.
I've now edited my region in all those files so what I can now do is run node 0 1 and then choose the
0 1 create table J.S. fell and hit enter.
And so let's head back over to the console now and see what's happened.
If we go into tables and I'm just gonna refresh and sure enough we've now got the tri Dax table let's
have a quick look at clusters are still creating.
So that's okay while that's happening let's go back and we're going to run node 0 2 write data and this
one is gonna put a bunch of items into our tables if we now go into our table and go to items we'll
see there's a whole bunch of data here
so let's query our table we can run note a through get item test and we can see that we are getting a response
time of about two point four milliseconds down to nought point four milliseconds and let's now run the
next file which is a query test and that's twenty about one point six milliseconds and then we can run
the 0 5 file which is a scan test and we got about one point six milliseconds so keep an eye to those
item values or those response times because we're next going to query directly you.
DynamiteDB accelerator.
And we'll see what the response times are like and how much faster they'll will need to now get our
cluster name so the way we can do that is two ways we can run this command AWS dax describe clusters
and then query and then we look for clusters and the discovery points and I'll just need to close the
parentheses there and it wants me to specify a region so I can just do dash dash region and specify
ap-southeast-2 and then you get your end point so you can see the port.
And this is the actual I O N or this is the actual address of the of the dot of the tax cluster.
So then you can just append a triple one onto the end with a colon in between them.
The other way to do this is just to head over to Dax and you can see the end point here including the
colon and the port.
So I'm just gonna select this and it's a bit finicky and copy that to my clipboard my dynamoDB Dax
cluster is now available.
So what I want to do is run the commands to query so I'm going to run a command that gets all item first
and I'm going to paste in that endpoint
and we get a response time that's a bit faster than before.
Let's rerun it and yeah it's running about one point eight milliseconds versus two point four.
Now let's run the query test and again we're going to put in our end point and I came back in one point
four milliseconds.
We had one point six before.
So now let's do the next one which was the scan test and that's running at one point two milliseconds
versus one point six.
So we're definitely seeing an improvement.
So just heading back to our diagram what we've done now is we've created a table in DynamoDB using
no J from our EC2 instance.
We've created a DynamoDB accelerator cluster and we've then been able to query data through the cache
on that dax cluster and see an improved response time.
So that's really good.
Let's go back over to the console and what we're gonna do there is just remove our configuration and
clean everything up.
So I'm back in the console just before we clean this all up.
Let's just have a quick look around the DynamoDB accelerator cluster.
You can see our nodes here and you can add nodes you can reboot nodes here or delete them.
We can see some cloudwatch metrics so we can see how many cache hits have occurred.
You can set alarms as well.
And under the cluster you can edit certain things you can edit the parameter groups and the maintenance
windows and S.A. notifications.
But a lot of our settings are locked down so you've got to get them right when you can actually create
your cluster.
So what we want to do now we're just going to delete this cluster we can then go to tables and we can
delete our dynamoDB table and Dax table
and we're also finished with our instance so let's go of it too EC2 and just terminate our instance
and that's everything cleaned up. In the next lab we're going to create a new table which we're going
to configure as a global table so that we have a multi-region multi-master database.